[Music]
what a metabolic diet is like and why it
really works
we all know that our metabolism
significantly affects our weight but how
can we actually take advantage of it and
lose weight without gaining it back a
couple of days later easy just stick to
a metabolic diet intrigue then keep
watching because today we're going to
tell you everything about this highly
effective dieting method but before we
start don't forget to subscribe to our
Channel and turn on notifications now
you won't miss any of our new videos
there are multiple diets and tips on how
to lose weight but Dian crests a
certified nutritionist from the u.s.
paved her own way by developing a new
nutritional system in 2009 she wrote a
book called the metabolism miracle the
book is based on her personal experience
scientific findings and medical facts it
was so successful that the Daily Mail
gave it the dietary book of the Year
award in 2010 so what is Dian crisis
method all about let's find out together
1 how does it work if you've ever been
on a diet before you can probably
confirm that it doesn't usually help you
lose weight in the long run that's
because of the scientifically proven
phenomenon called the plateau effect
when dieting your body functions in
survival mode trying to save every
single calorie its main goal is to
prevent you from dying of hunger at any
cost and that's why it considers fat
reserves a benefit to put it simply when
we reduce the amount of food we consume
our body reduces our metabolism to save
energy the main goal of the metabolic
diet is to reset certain organs like the
pancreas and liver
it might sound scary but don't worry
afterwards they will start working in a
new way which will even out your
metabolism and to bring it to a normal
state and that means saying bye-bye to
all those unwanted pounds that have been
bothering you however this is not the
only thing you should know before
following the metabolic diet to two
types of metabolism in her book the
metabolism miracle
Diane cress distinguishes two main types
of metabolism regular metabolism or type
a is the one that slim and fit people
have lazy metabolism or type B is the
one that overweight people have the body
of a person with excess weight is unable
to properly dispose of glucose as a
result their fat cells accumulate fat
with increased intensity this can lead
to a whole bunch of metabolic disorders
including dyslipidemia hypertension and
impaired glucose tolerance
it seems that reducing calories should
lead to reducing weight but
unfortunately this is not true and the
principal cause of it is that the
hormone insulin also influences our
metabolism insulin is responsible for
decreasing the concentration of glucose
in the blood an excessive amount of
insulin on the other hand makes us eat
more sugar and takes glycogen out of the
liver this leads to an increase of
glucose in the blood causing fat cells
to start to actively store fat all of
this makes a truly vicious circle we eat
sweets to increase the level of insulin
which results in an even bigger desire
to eat sweets at the same time if we
refuse to consume sweets or glucose the
excess of unspent insulin causes a
strong feeling of hunger
so it becomes almost impossible to lose
weight and here's where the metabolic
diet comes in handy by restarting your
malfunctioning metabolic mechanism
through a unique approach to nutrition
the diet includes three main stages each
with its own specific regimen and it's
finally time to discover more about them
[Music]
three the three stages first of all
consult your doctor before following the
diet we're all different and you never
know how your system is going to react
so a consultation with a specialist is
obligatory completing all three stages
of the metabolic diet will take quite a
while but the results are definitely
worth the effort the first stage is the
most difficult it is aimed at making the
pancreas stop producing an incredible
amount of insulin in fact it's a low
carbohydrate stage of the metabolic diet
the first stage is divided into eight
weeks every day you should consume no
more than point eight ounces of
carbohydrates
Diane kress recommends dividing them
into five equal parts which makes it
about point two ounces of carbohydrates
for each meal the author adds that she
essentially opposes long term low-carb
diets but short term carbohydrate
abstinence is the only non-medical way
to normalize the process of insulin
production you can also cut out fast and
slow carbs like pasta oats and bread for
better results here's a list of basic
products for the first stage of the
metabolic diet proteins including
skinless lean meat seafood low-fat
cheese cottage cheese eggs unsweetened
soy products fats such as light versions
of butter sour cream
margarine mayonnaise vegetable oils
olives avocados nuts and seeds
vegetables especially artichokes
asparagus green beans broccoli Brussels
sprouts cauliflower celery cucumbers
eggplant mushrooms varieties of peppers
radishes and tomatoes allowed
carbohydrates include yogurts juices
milkshakes sugarless desserts and
portions of other products that contain
no more than point two ounces of
carbohydrates
remember to take things in moderation
and be sure to control the portion size
of allowed products as well don't expect
the process to be easy though Kress
confesses that if you get on with it
you'll feel tired broken irritated and
hungry during the first three days of
the diet
it may even escalate the weakness and
vertigo but that's just how the
adaptation process for a new diet goes
on the fourth day your mood and state of
health will improve once you're done
with the first stage of the diet it's
time for the more pleasant period of
stage number two the best thing is that
at this stage you'll be losing weight
which is why it should last as long as
necessary to allow you to get rid of all
the extra pounds and there's only one
rule for this time interval you
shouldn't consume more than 2.1 ounces
of carbohydrates per day dividing them
into about point four two point seven
ounces per meal this is how you're
rested pancreas will slowly start
working in a new and efficient way
conveniently the second stage allows all
products from the first stage if you
want you can enrich the diet by adding
some recipes for low-carb baking from
Diane cress
they can be found online and lastly when
you've achieved your perfect weight
start stage three this stage should be
followed for the rest of your life
but there's nothing to be concerned
about after all the rules you need to
follow our district it's just basic
nutrition if you want to maintain your
perfect figure for the rest of your life
calculate the number of calories needed
for your weight don't forget that your
gender age physical activity and the
fact that your body is prone to the
wrong type of metabolism which we talked
about at the beginning should be taken
into consideration consuming a limited
portion of carbohydrates with each meal
and eating five times a day are also
included in your new set of rules you
should try to refuse baked goods at all
costs but you can make little exceptions
for zero calorie desserts or sweet
fruits every so often in any case the
amount of consumed carbohydrates should
be strictly controlled it shouldn't be a
problem though as at this point in a
diet it will already be a habit once
again before proceeding with this diet
visit your doctor they will tell you
whether it's advisable for you and what
you can do to make it
more effective based on your systems
peculiarities other than that follow the
rules and the metabolic diet will
certainly transform your body for the
better what's the best and worst diet
you've ever tried tell us about your
experience in the comments below don't
forget to give us a like and click
subscribe to stay on the bright side of
life
you